
Assignment Specifications
Completion requirements
Background for Resit Late Summer Assignments 1 & 2

Select and review in detail one research paper of your choice, in the area of Data Science, in a topic of your interest. The paper can be selected by yourself using:  

a) Open access data science related journals, including:

Journal of Machine Learning with Applications (Elsevier) https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/machine-learning-with-applications
Journal of Big Data (Springer) https://journalofbigdata.springeropen.com/articles
b) The open access research paper repository:

https://arxiv.org/corr
b) Journals and conferences which are not open access, but which are accessible from computers on campus (this allows you using Goldsmiths’ licences automatically), including:

Artificial Neural Networks and Machine Learning – International Conference on Artificial Neural Networks
IEEE International Conference on Machine Learning and Applications https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/conhome/1001544/all-proceedings 
International Conference on Engineering Applications of Neural Networks https://link.springer.com/conference/eann 
Journal of Machine Learning (Springer) https://link.springer.com/journal/10994/volumes-and-issues
ACM Transactions on Knowledge Discovery from Data https://dl.acm.org/loi/tkdd 
c) Some data science papers from other interdiciplinary or non data science journals:
Revolutionizing the Early Detection of Alzheimer’s Disease through Non-Invasive Biomarkers: The Role of AI and Deep Learning

The Bio‐Hermes Study: Biomarker database developed to investigate blood‐based and digital biomarkers in community‐based, diverse populations clinically screened for Alzheimer's disease

Assignment 1 Specification

Prepare and record a presentation of the chosen paper. You are required to submit a file with the link to the recorded presentation, and a file with the slides in pdf format on VLE (a submission link for Resit Late Summer Assignment 1 is provided on VLE).



Assignment 2 Specification

Your are required to submit a review of the chosen paper, as a report of to 2500 words. The report should comprise:

A title as for instance “A review of [Title of the paper followed by the names of the authors, and the journal/conference/place where it was published]”
A “Paper description and contributions, and background work” section presenting the paper in your words, demonstrating your own understating and your view of the paper. As background work, also cite other papers that are related to the paper that you selected for review. For instance these should be among the works that the authors cite in their paper (that you selected). For each paper mention what is its relevance to the paper that you review.
An “Evaluation” section providing and discussing your opinions on the strengths and weaknesses of the selected paper, and how, in your view, such a work could be extended or enhanced.
A “References” section comprising the title, authors, and place of publication, and year of publication, and a download link such as the DOI link (if available), of the selected paper, and of other papers you cite in your report. You can be inspired by the References section in the paper you review.
Note: When you write your report, do not just copy-paste text from the selected paper, but describe in your own words the work. Moreover, make sure to acknowledge, whenever you use any figures, charts, etc to explain the paper – and cite the source when you use those pieces of material.
